[ALARM WAILING
AND DOGS BARKING]
[MEN SHOUTING IN JAPANESE]
[m1
They miss home.
Just a few more weeks.
Go to bed.
You look exhausted.
I've got a stack of case files
I need to get through.
[m1
[SIGHS]
[GASPS]
I have waited a long time
for this reunion, Agent Raimo.
Have we had the pleasure?
Yes.
Though it could hardly
be called pleasurable.
l was captured by your task force,
collateral damage in your hunt
for Raymond Reddington.
[SIGHS]
Mako Tanida.
On your knees.
l have no intention--
Hiyah!
[GRUNTING]
You lack honor and humility,
Agent Raimo.
I will provide you with both.
Pick up that tanto
and remove it from its scabbard.
ln feudal Japan,
one warrior's transgression
against another
was measured
by the code of Bushido.
For your sins against me,
I require ritual seppuku.
You will disembowel yourself
to my satisfaction.
I will give you 60 seconds
to put that sword into your stomach
and begin cutting.
Do that and it is you alone.
Or I will run you through myself
and take your whole family.
You won't harm my family?
If you abide by honor, I will not.
[m1
Unh!
JOLENE:
So you guys have been here for...?
LIZ: Oh, only a year.
We moved from up north. I was
there for three years, actually. Hey.
Babe, you remember Jolene.
From the baby shower?
Sure. You sub for Mr. Sinnard.
It's Ted, right? Tim, sorry.
It's Tom. Fourth grade.
We just bumped into each other outside.
She's looking for a place
in the neighborhood.
I've gotta get out of my apartment.
It's super cramped.
And my fiance and I love
this neighborhood, so... Oh.
Hey, what did you think
of Allison's show?
Who?
Allison.
The exhibit. At Willard Street Gallery?
You went to an art exhibit?
Well, uh, calling it art might be a stretch.
It was amazing.
Why didn't you bring your wife?
Yeah. Why didn't you bring your wife?
For the record, I did invite you,
but you were working.
Trust me, you didn't miss anything.
Anyway, I would love to stay and talk art,
but I should go grade some papers.
I should get going as well.
Let me give you my cell.
If you're looking for a realtor,
my girlfriend is awesome.
Thank you. That's really cool of you.
Good luck with your papers, Tom.
Thank you.
And I will see you at school.
[DOOR OPENS]
[QUIET CHATTERING]
| see those wheels turning.
Hey, brother.
To Sam.
How you feeling?
First 48, right?
Yeah, that clock ran out.
RESSLER: Hey. Hey, fellas
BOBBY: Pete. Good to see you.
Hey.
Good to see you too.
Got anything yet?
RESSLER:
We got nothing.
NPA said suicide. Said that Sam
was carrying a lot of debt.
Ritual suicide? Come on,
I don't believe that for a second.
Sammy loved Sarah.
Then who gutted him?
The list of people we pissed off,
pick a number.
Hey, strangers.
BOBBY: Hey.
Audrey, how are you?
Good to see you.
ls retirement treating you well?
Never mind me.
It's a hell of a way to see you again.
Hey, Audrey.
You speak to Sarah?
Being back in the States
is hard enough.
I think we're gonna try and stay
here with Sarah next week.
The house is gonna be
surrounded by feds,
I think she's gonna be okay.
Good old Rez.
BOBBY: Mr. Emotional Support.
We should probably get going
and let the family have
some time alone.
Bye, guys.
Bye, Audrey.
We've been tracking one guy
for five years.
My money? Reddington's got
his fingerprints all over this thing.
[m1
[KNOCKING]
Hey, can I ask you something?
Reddington, you know how
to find him.
Can you put the two of us in touch?
What's going on with you two?
Why?
Because he's looking for you.
MAN:
Lift, lift.
[CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING
OVER SPEAKERS]
MAN
Just swing your arm.
You shouldn't be here.
I said I'd send a messenger.
I wanted to deliver
the check personally, Christine.
Thank you.
MAN: Lift.
Will it be ready in time?
Everything's on schedule
like you asked.
Just like last time.
What do they do for lunch?
Do they order in
or eat salads out
of those TuppenNare bowls?
How does it work with dancers?
They smoke.
Ha,ha,ha.
I'll see you on the 22nd.
And please send my thanks
to your mother.
I found Agent Ressler.
[m1
I heard Agent Raimo
was relieved of his viscera.
If you had anything to do with--
Agent Ressler, please.
What was it,
payback for Vienna?
I'm the one
who reached out to you, Donald.
And it wasn't to revisit
all the times | eluded
your little coterie of door-kickers
who pursued me
with such fervor and zeal.
I came to discuss
a former associate of mine
who your team arrested
along the way. Mako Tanida.
The yakuza boss? He's in prison.
He was. Two days ago,
he broke out of Abashiri.
If you ask the Japanese,
they'll skirt it.
They claim Abashiri
is escape-proof.
It's embarrassing.
They're touchy about that sort of thing.
I suspect Tanida is the one
who killed your agent friend.
So you wanna help me find him?
Let me guess. He double-crossed you
and you want his head in a box.
There's a thought.
But for the moment,
the scalp I'm worried about is yours.
Tanida is disciplined,
relentless.
If he did kill Agent Raimo,
there is the distinct possibility
he's just getting started.
lfear, Dona/d,
that you’re being hunted
by a vengeful, ruthless killer.
Purpose of your visit?
Reunion. With some old friends.
MAN:
All families, please stay together.
Welcome to the United States,
Mr. ltami.
[CAR BEEPS]
TANIDA:
Hello, Agent Maguire.
Who the hell are you?
You don't remember me, do you?
You will.
[m1
Mako Tanida,
former clan boss of the Azuma-Dojin,
based out of Osaka.
By the time our task force caught up,
he controlled the heroin trade
traveling the Silk Road.
We thought his empire would collapse.
It didn't. In fact, it expanded.
Grew to include alliances
with the Chinese triad,
Korean tong, even Russian Bratva,
and his operations in the US.
have grown.
For a time, the intelligence community
believed Tanida somehow
was operating his empire
from inside prison.
[PHONE RINGING]
No one knew how. There were theories.
He had politicians in his pocket,
or he controlled the army.
After he was in solitary, it became clear
someone else was running the empire.
Within the agency,
that man is known as Aiko Tanida.
Mako's younger brother.
He escaped the night of the raid.
We believe he went underground, dark,
re-emerged as something different.
Bookish boy
turned ruthless crime lord.
They call him Tensei.
Means "reborn."
Reach out to your
agency contacts.
I wanna know everything
there is to know about this brother.
ARAM:
We just received word.
Agent Maguire...
I'm sorry.
Maguire's body was found
under a bridge near Broadway
and 39th.
MEERA:
Three surveillance hits on Tanida.
ARAM:
Arrived on United 472 from Tokyo.
Passed through Customs at 11:32
under the alias Yasu ltami.
Feed NPA the alias.
Reddington task force, who was on it?
Myself and Bobby.
I'm sending protective detail.
Did you hear me? Agent Ressler?
I got a place up
in Prince George's County, off the grid.
I gotta get Audrey there.
TOM:
What is wrong with you?
You come to my house?
Calm down.
You're not my handler.
I don't work for you.
Berlin is having doubts.
Well, Berlin doesn't have a damn clue.
Do you have any idea
how many candidates there were?
They chose me.
I've done everything they asked.
I married the woman.
I've made her think
my world revolves around her.
It's been two years
and I've heard nothing.
We sent word four months ago.
I had to go dark
because Reddington sent
a psychopath into my house.
He cut me like a totem pole.
Liz finds my go-bag,
my passports, everything.
What did I do? I got myself out.
I convinced her
the passports are fake,
the cash isn't mine.
So excuse me for being--
Don't touch that.
I've had my hands full.
Berlin wants information.
So do I.
You know, somebody put
cameras in that house.
Somebody was watching us,
and it wasn't the FBI.
Why don't you tell me--?
I can't help you unless you calm down.
[m1
[GASPS]
You leave the door open?
I told you I was gonna bring my stuff by.
Didn't wanna keep locking
and unlocking the door.
Were you downstairs?
Yeah, I parked around back.
Why?
What's wrong?
I'll tell you in the car.
Don, what's wrong?
Pete Maguire is dead.
Come on.
Best I can tell, their paths crossed
at key moments in the past 20 years.
Quantico. Baltimore.
She doesn't know and I can't prove it,
but Reddington was funneling money
through the adoptive father.
What's this?
The black site, from memory.
The unit Keen works for.
What about the cases?
I sat right next
to Reddington once.
At a hospital.
I could have put a bullet in his head.
That wasn't your mission.
Show-and-tell is over.
I have detention at 4.
[CAMERA CLICKS]
[m1
Where are we going?
What kind of trouble are you in?
Sam was murdered.
By the same
person who killed Pete.
You remember Japan?
The task force spent time
looking for Reddington?
We put someone away,
and now they're out.
And they're coming for you.
I'm gonna take you
somewhere safe. My folks
got this cabin up in P.G. County.
I'm gonna handle this.
I'm scared.
Ah!
[GUNSHOTS]
Hang on! Hang on!
[MEN YELLING IN JAPANESE]
Don.
[AUDREY SCREAMS]
MAN: We have to go!
Audrey!
No, no. Stop...
I got you. I got you, sweetie.
Hang on, let me see.
Okay, come on, come on,
come on, girl.
Put your hand over it.
Unh!
Come on, come on, come on. Shh.
Don.
No, no, no. Hey, hey, hey.
Look at me. Look at me.
Stay, stay. Stay with me. Stay with me.
Don't go.
[POLICE SIREN WAILING
IN DISTANCE]
Come on, Audrey.
[SIREN WAILING]
You can't sideline me.
We'll find Tanida.
Doesn't matter how long
Htakes.
But we have to do it right,
follow procedure.
You expect me
to care about procedure?
Of course not.
I can't imagine what you're
going through. I wouldn't dare.
[J‘J‘J‘]
But don't compromise yourself.
You're a good agent.
A good man.
I have to do something.
You'll grieve.
And while you do,
we'll track Tanida down
and we'll make sure he gets his due.
You have my word on that.
I'll have a car take you home.
Bobby, where are you?
BOBBY:
I went through every Cl, every source
when I was running that task force.
I got nothing.
What about Tensei, the brother?
I reached out to a friend
of mine at the DEA.
He's got no base of operation,
no regular haunts, no hot spots.
This guy's a ghost.
Look, Don. Don, we can--
We can do this later.
No. We do it now.
Somebody out there knows something.
Well, I'll tell you who knows.
Reddington.
They worked together, Donnie.
Reddington understands
how this world works.
What I wouldn't give
to get him alone in a room
forjust five minutes.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
RAYMOND:
Is she still in town?
No.
She's at the Corn Palace
in Mitchell, South Dakota.
Bring her to me.
I thought you wanted to see
how this played out?
It has.
If you want me to bring her in,
there's gonna be a fee.
And it's gonna cost you double.
Oh, why is that?
Because I don't like you.
And that hat
makes your head look funny.
The pot meets the kettle at last.
Bring me the girl.
Searching in the desert
for a drop of vengeance
to slake an unquenchable thirst
is a lonely walk, my friend.
Tanida's close.
I can burn
the whole neighborhood down
or you can tell me where he is.
RAYMOND:
Donald, I understand how you feel.
Beneath the iron and rust exterior
beats the heart of a man
swimming in immeasurable grief.
I am truly sorry about Audrey.
There are few that understand
love and loss more than I.
I'm glad you understand.
Where is he?
Let me tell you
something that someone
much wiser than I
told me at a similar
point in my life.
Go home.
Turn back from this and go home.
It may seem
like the hardest thing in the world,
but it is profoundly easier
than what you're contemplating.
I'm not turning back.
[J‘J‘J‘]
That's pretty much what I said.
In your dust-up with Tanida,
were there any survivors?
Yes.
Yeah. Why? Injuries?
There's a house in Columbia Heights,
doubles as an underground hospital.
1306 Gerard.
May be worth a visit.
Agent Ressler.
Once you cross over,
there are things in the darkness
that can keep your heart
from ever feeling the light again.
All I feel is hate.
Good.
You're gonna need it.
[J‘J‘J‘]
J‘ Yeah I”
J‘ Whoa J‘
J‘ Well, it’s too long now
I’m in the same old lies J‘
BOBBY:
You sure about this? A hospital?
Where did you get your information?
You coming or not?
Tell me what you're thinking here.
RESSLER:
I'm gonna find Tanida.
I'm gonna find anyone
who was involved.
Find them, I'm gonna kill them all.
BOBBY:
Uh, okay.
J‘ Oh, Lord J‘
J‘ Said, oh, no J“
RESSLER: FBI.
BOBBY: Everybody on the ground!
You, show me your hands!
Show me your hands!
Get over there! Move!
Remember me?
I haven't forgotten you.
Let's make this quick.
Where's Tanida?
Ah! Ah!
RESSLER: Where is he?
Where's Tanida?
[SPEAKS JAPANESE]
No, no, no. English!
[IN ENGLISH]
Twenty-second and Vermont.
Blue Door. It's a club.
Please,
you didn't hear it from me.
RESSLER: Come on.
Stay there.
J‘ I lost my mind
In the city of lights J‘
JOLENE:
No.
Yes.
Yep.
J‘ I heard this coming
I can feel the rain J‘
J‘ It's the same to me J“
[KNIFE CLICKS]
J‘ Oh, Lord J‘
J‘ lsaid, oh, Lord J‘
J‘ Won 't you follow me
Into the jungle? J‘
J‘ Ain't no God on these streets
In the heart of the jungle J‘
We need to move. Now.
J‘ Yeah J‘
J‘ Won 't you follow me
Into the jungle? J‘J‘
[CHATTERING ON POLICE RADIO]
Metro P.D. got called in
on an 808.
They were told
two men presented as FBI.
Ressler and Jonica.
Any idea how they slipped
their protective detail?
He's not answering.
How did they know to come here?
M.P.D.,
with full resources of the FBI,
we didn't know this place existed.
You and I both know how they got here.
RAYMOND:
No, I understand,
but I don't care about the prince.
No, no, no, the 22nd.
That was our agreement.
Christine, I don't care
about production issues.
Please just figure it out
by the 22nd.
Ressler. Where is he?
He came to you.
You told him about that hospital.
Agent Ressler came to me
for assistance, which I provided.
You sent him after Tanida.
No.
I provided a bit of direction
in an othenNise blind pursuit.
He's not like you.
He can't murder someone
in cold blood and come out
of it okay on the other end.
Nobody can murder someone
in cold blood
and come out okay on the other end.
We need your help.
We have to find Tanida
before Ressler does.
We've looked through
his financials, his prison contacts,
the brother--
Tensei?
The reborn.
He's dead.
What do you mean he's dead?
Aiko Tanida
is running his brother's empire.
Aiko Tanida died
the day his brother was captured
by Ressler's task force.
Anyone who tells you otherwise
doesn’t know the difference
between a water buffalo
and a musk ox.
Mako Tanida.
Agent Donald Ressler.
Let's go for a drive.
Reddington says
Aiko Tanida is dead.
Died the same night
his brother was apprehended.
No. We have documented
proof he escaped.
Then it was falsified.
We need to review what happened.
No one's seen or heard
from the guy in four years.
Our last photograph is older than that.
Aiko Tanida's not hiding, he's dead.
We need to review the case files.
Someone else
is running Tanida's business.
This is the incident report
from the NPA in Japan.
What am I looking for?
Details support our own investigation.
The vehicle carrying Aiko Tanida
was ambushed.
Only the driver's body was found.
What did we miss?
There was somebody else in the car.
The NPA report makes a reference
to an American federal agent
accompanying the vehicle.
COOPER: What federal agent?
Bobby Jonica.
Jonica was on the task force.
He had knowledge
of Tanida's enterprise.
He knew everything.
Key players, trade routes,
distribution hook-ups.
He was able to avoid detection
by making us believe Aiko Tanida
was still alive.
Jonica is Tensei.
[J‘J‘J‘]
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
[GRUNTING]
Who contracted you?
JOLENE: This isn't right.
Who?
Was it Younes? Salumbides?
We shouldn't have brought him here.
Was it Reddington?
Somebody might have seen you.
Right. I should have let him
grab you and drag you off.
I can handle myselfjust fine.
You weren't. But you're welcome.
He's not gonna talk.
It was Reddington.
JOLENE:
You don't know that.
Do you know this is because of you
that we're here with him?
You never should've come to my house.
I followed orders.
You never should have talked
to my wife.
What are we gonna do about him?
You really don't get it, do you,
what he's doing?
Wujing. The Alchemist.
JOLENE: What?
The cases. Reddington used
them to track you down.
To get to you, to me.
That means you're compromised.
Then it's only a matter of time
before your trail leads to me.
Not gonna happen.
Call my wife.
Get her on the phone. Disengage.
Disengage?
Disengage.
Tell her you're not looking for a place
anymore and you're moving to Dayton.
Don't do it.
As soon as you hang up that phone,
he's gonna kill you.
Then he's gonna kill me.
Don't make that call.
Says the man tied to a chair.
Do it.
Hi, Liz. It's Jolene. I hope you haven't
gotten in touch with your realtor friend.
The craziest thing just happened.
My fiancé got a job in Dayton
of all places.
So, um, major bummer.
Uh, say goodbye
to Tom for me, okay?
There. Now-- Unh!
[J‘J‘J‘]
[GASPING]
Okay.
Now you.
[GUNSHOT]
Hey. You okay?
Hey, Donnie,
we're doing the right thing here.
How long did it take
for your girlfriend to bleed out?
You must be filled with rage.
You have no idea.
Maybe I do.
Hey, just keep it to yourself, huh?
Do you remember the night we met?
The arrest.
Taking away me and my brother?
That was the last I saw of him.
The last anyone saw of him.
That's a very sad story.
Don't listen to him.
Shut up back there.
Raimo and Maguire.
I'm satisfied they knew nothing.
That leaves the two of you.
You think I did all this
because you arrested me?
I said shut up back there!
You were doing yourjob,
I respected that.
What I do not respect
is that you killed my brother.
Shut your mouth! Not one more word!
Bobby, talk to me.
Never mind him. Don't listen.
He's gonna kill both of us.
[GUNSHOTS]
[TIRES SCREECHING]
Donnie, let go!
[CRASH]
[J‘J‘J‘]
[GRUNTING]
Argh!
[GROANS]
[GRUNTING]
Don't move, brother.
Don't even breathe.
He picked up Tanida.
After that, nothing.
We found his cell
in his apartment.
The GPS in his car
has been deactivated.
He's off the grid.
Prince George's County.
Ressler has a place there.
It's where he was going with Audrey.
He wants to be alone.
Get there. Now.
What are you doing,
Donnie?
Come on.
It doesn't have to be like this.
You gotta understand me, Donnie.
I'm chasing scumbags all around
the world making millions of dollars.
Come on, Donnie.
This is me.
What, the Boy Scout's
gonna kill his best friend?
Best friend.
Couple months back,
I was in this hospital.
I'd been shot.
Sitting in there for days,
all alone.
And Audrey just pops into my head.
Couldn't have been more
than an hour later, she walks in.
Like the universe tilted
and brought her to me.
Like it was fated to happen.
But it wasn't fate.
You know why?
Reddington.
I can tell you this
because you're gonna die.
I work with Reddington.
Believe it or not,
I was shot protecting him.
That's why I was
in that hospital.
It's because of Reddington
that Audrey came back into my life.
He's why I got three more months
with her.
And because of you,
she's gone.
My greatest enemy
brought her back to me
and my best friend took her away!
No, no, Donnie. You're wrong.
I didn't kill Audrey. Tanida did.
Don't!
No. You brought this
down on us.
On Pete and on Sam.
You're gonna do
the honorable thing.
Or I'll kill you myself.
[J‘J‘J‘]
[AGENTS SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
AGENT 1:
Pick it up!
Call an ambulance.
Set a perimeter.
AGENT 2:
EMS requested, mile marker...
RESSLER: Pick it up.
I'm not gonna do this.
What, are you crazy?
Pick it up!
I'm not gonna do it,
Donnie. You're gonna
have to shoot me first.
Come on, what are you, crazy?
Pick up the damn knife.
No.
Ressler, no.
They're all dead, Liz. Audrey's gone.
This isn't the way.
What if he killed Tom?
What would you do?
Listen. If you do this, you're gonna
go to jail for the rest of your life.
BOBBY:
Do it, Donnie.
Do it. Go ahead.
Go ahead, pull the trigger.
Don't listen to him.
You know what they'll do to me, Don.
A dirty cop? I can't do that.
Pick it up.
LIZ: Put down the gun.
Ressler.
Pick it up!
DO it!
RESSLER: Pick it up.
BOBBY: Pull the trigger.
Don't listen.
BOBBY:
She's dead because of me,
Donnie, do it.
Pull the trigger!
Pick it up!
Pick it up.
Don, come on--
[SOBBING]
Donnie. I'm sorry, Don.
Donnie.
Unh!
[BOBBY GRUNTING]
[J‘J‘J‘]
[CHATTERING]
MAN 1: Half mile up?
MAN 2: Watch your step.
[J‘J‘J‘]
J‘ Strange face
With your eyes J‘
J‘ So pale and sincere J‘
J‘ Underneath you know well J‘
J‘ You have nothing to fearJ‘
J‘ For the dreams
That came to you J‘
J‘ When you're young J“
J‘ Told of a life where J‘
J‘ Spring has sprung J‘
J‘ You would seem so frail J‘
J‘ In the cold of the night J‘
J‘ When the armies of emotion J‘
J‘ Go out to ﬁght J‘
He's one of our biggest donors.
Never comes to any other performance.
Same show,
on the same day.
His daughter was in the show
years ago.
Ladies, you're paid to dance,
not to gossip.
J‘ You say to the sky J‘
The Cowboy, have you found him?
No.
RAYMOND:
The girl?
DEMBE:
Nothing.
Both of them. They're gone.
J‘ Ooh, ooh, ooh J‘
J‘ So forget this cruel world J‘J‘
LIZ: Hey. Hey.
Mind if I join you?
Not at all.
How was your day?
Ugh. Let's talk
about anything but that.
Like that girl Jolene.
What about her?
Did, uh, Ellie find her a place?
It's not happening.
She called me and left a message,
said her fiance got ajob in Dayton.
Hm.
So, what, she's just gone?
I guess so.
I'm kind of glad.
I saw the way she looked at you.
Heh.
Come here. Kiss me, Tim.
Or whatever your name is.
[ORCHESTRA PLAYING
CLASSICAL MUSIC]
RAYMOND:
Dona/d, I want you to know
that I do understand how you feel.
From Mr. Reddington.
RAYMOND:
There is nothing
that can take the pain away.
But eventually you will ﬁnd a way
to live with it.
[J‘J‘J‘]
RAYMOND:
There will be nightmares.
And every day when you wake up,
it will be the ﬁrst thing you think about.
Until one day,
it will be the second thing.
[J‘J‘J‘]